README.markdown, before:

Bitcask
=======

Utilities for reading the Bitcask file format. You can use this to recover
deleted values (before they are compacted), recover from a backup, list keys
to do read-repair when list-keys is malfunctioning, and so forth.

Install
-------

    $ gem install bitcask

Examples
--------

Open a bitcask.

    b = Bitcask.new '/var/lib/riak/bitcask/0'

Load the keydir, using hintfiles where possible.

    b.load

Get a specific entry:

    b['test'] #=> 'value_of_test'

Iterate over all values:

    b.each do |key, value|
      puts key
      puts value
    end

In Riak, these are erlang terms.

    b.each do |key, value|
      next if value == Bitcask::TOMBSTONE

      bucket, key = BERT.decode key
      value = BERT.decode value

      # Store the object's value in riak
      o = riak[bucket][key]
      o.raw_data = value.last
      o.store

      # Or dump the entire value to a file for later inspection.
      FileUtils.mkdir_p(bucket)
      File.open(File.join(bucket, key), 'w') do |out|
        out.write value.to_json
      end
    end

You can also work directly on the data files. Here's how to dump all keys and
values, in cron order, excluding tombstones. Data files go in cronological
order, so this is in effect replaying history since the last merge.

    b.data_files.each do |data_file|
      data_file.each do |entry|
        next if entry.value == Bitcask::TOMBSTONE
        puts entry.key
        puts entry.value
      end
    end

If you know the offset, you can retrieve it directly from a DataFile.

    data_file[0] # => Struct {:key => 'key', :value => 'value'}

And step through values one by one.

    data_file.read # => [k1, v1]
    data_file.read # => [k2, v2]

Seek, rewind, and pos are also supported.

You'd be surprised how fast this is. 10,000 values/sec, easy.

Status
------

Anyone who wants to expand this, feel free. I've been using it for emergency
recovery operations, but don't plan to reimplement bitcask in Ruby myself. I
welcome pull requests.

License
-------

This software was written by Kyle Kingsbury <aphyr@aphyr.com>, at Remixation,
Inc., for their iPad social video app "Showyou". Released under the MIT
license.

Commit message:

Readme update for bin/bitcask.

README.markdown, after:

Bitcask
=======

Utilities for reading the Bitcask file format. You can use this to recover
deleted values (before they are compacted), recover from a backup, list keys
to do read-repair when list-keys is malfunctioning, and so forth.

Install
-------

    $ gem install bitcask

Examples
--------

Open a bitcask.

    b = Bitcask.new '/var/lib/riak/bitcask/0'

Load the keydir, using hintfiles where possible.

    b.load

Get a specific entry:

    b['test'] #=> 'value_of_test'

Iterate over all values:

    b.each do |key, value|
      puts key
      puts value
    end

In Riak, these are erlang terms.

    b.each do |key, value|
      next if value == Bitcask::TOMBSTONE

      bucket, key = BERT.decode key
      value = BERT.decode value

      # Store the object's value in riak
      o = riak[bucket][key]
      o.raw_data = value.last
      o.store

      # Or dump the entire value to a file for later inspection.
      FileUtils.mkdir_p(bucket)
      File.open(File.join(bucket, key), 'w') do |out|
        out.write value.to_json
      end
    end

You can also work directly on the data files. Here's how to dump all keys and
values, in cron order, excluding tombstones. Data files go in cronological
order, so this is in effect replaying history since the last merge.

    b.data_files.each do |data_file|
      data_file.each do |entry|
        next if entry.value == Bitcask::TOMBSTONE
        puts entry.key
        puts entry.value
      end
    end

If you know the offset, you can retrieve it directly from a DataFile.

    data_file[0] # => Struct {:key => 'key', :value => 'value'}

And step through values one by one.

    data_file.read # => [k1, v1]
    data_file.read # => [k2, v2]

Seek, rewind, and pos are also supported.

You'd be surprised how fast this is. 10,000 values/sec, easy.

Utility
-------

bin/bitcask is a small tool to inspect bitcask files. It's designed for
integration with Riak (parsing keys as erlang {bucket, key} tuples, for
instance), but can be content agnostic as well. It uses various tricks to do
things quickly, like only scanning hintfiles when values aren't involved.

Show all comments.

    bitcask /var/lib/riak --bucket comments all

Get the keys of the last 10 users written to bitcask, without color.

    bitcask /var/lib/riak --bucket users --no-values --no-color last --limit 10

Show the full structure of a given user. Here the two arguments after `get`
are presumed to be --bucket and --key.

    bitcask /var/lib/riak --verbose-values --no-keys get users sauron

Show all the changes to a given key and value over time.

    bitcask /var/lib/riak --bucket users --key sauron dump

Count a bucket in a specific bitcask.

    bitcask /var/lib/riak/bitcask/0 --bucket magic_rings count

Status
------

Anyone who wants to expand this, feel free. I've been using it for emergency
recovery operations, but don't plan to reimplement bitcask in Ruby myself. I
welcome pull requests.

License
-------

This software was written by Kyle Kingsbury <aphyr@aphyr.com>, at Remixation,
Inc., for their iPad social video app "Showyou". Released under the MIT
license.
